Kk proofreading deployment3 (#5000)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments-details.md

## 1 Introduction

> The **Environment Details** page shows information about a particular environment, for example production or acceptance. You can use it to manage and debug several aspects of the environment.

Reviewer: Great - we should definitely start with a description of the page, rather than jumping straight in to how we get there.

Author: Thank you!

> To enter the **Environment Details** page, go to the [Developer Portal](http://sprintr.home.mendix.com), select your licensed app, click **Environments**, and then click **Details** by the specific environment.

Reviewer: I prefer "open a page". Although I see this isn't one of your changes.
```suggestion
To open the **Environment Details** page, go to the [Developer Portal](http://sprintr.home.mendix.com), select your licensed app, click **Environments**, and then click **Details** by the specific environment.
```

{{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments-details/environment-details.png" alt="The Details button is located on the right side of the row">}}   

## 2 General Tab

> The contents of the **General** tab depend on the Mendix Cloud version on which the app is hosted. By default, apps are deployed to the [Mendix Cloud v4](/developerportal/deploy/mxcloudv4/), but some older apps may still run on the deprecated Mendix Cloud v3. For more information on the differences between Mendix Cloud v3 and v4, as well as migrating your app to the latest Cloud version, see [Migrate to Mendix Cloud v4](/developerportal/deploy/migrating-to-v4/).

Reviewer 2: "the" not necessary in "the Mendix Cloud v4"

Author: Fixed.

In this tab, you can find the following information about your environment:

* **Status**
    * White – the environment is stopped or was never deployed
    * Green – the environment is working correctly
    * Orange – the environment has warnings

>     * Red – the environment is not working correctly

Reviewer: Again, not your change, but perhaps we should be specifying the symbol as well as the colour, for people who are colourblind?
```suggestion
* **Status**
    * White (blank) – the environment is stopped or was never deployed
    * Green (check) – the environment is working correctly
    * Orange (horizontal line) – the environment has warnings
    * Red (cross) – the environment is not working correctly
```
But I'll leave that up to you!

        {{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments-details/environment-status.png" alt="The symbol displaying the environment status is located under the name of the environment" >}}   
* **Running since** – the date on which the app was started

> * **Name** – the type of environment (Test, Acceptance, Production or the name of a [flexible environment](/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/#flexible-environments)); for more information, see [Naming of Environments](#naming)

Reviewer 2: "see [Naming of Environments](https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/5000/files#naming)" > "see the [Naming of Environments](https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/5000/files#naming) section below" to let the user know they'll stay in the same doc

Author: Done

> * **Url** – the URL of the app

Reviewer 2: "Url" in the UI? If so, should get that corrected.

Author: Yes, it's in thte UI. I'll report it.

* **Project ID** – the unique identifier of your app
* **Environment ID** – the unique identifier of this environment
* **Custom domains** – any [custom domains](/developerportal/deploy/custom-domains/) of the app
* **Java Version** – Oracle version 1.8 or AdoptOpenJDK version 8
* **Mendix Studios Target** – if **Yes**, it means that Mendix Studio and Studio Pro deploy apps to this environment; for more information, see [Studio Deployment Settings](/developerportal/deploy/studio-deployment-settings/)
* **Plan** – for Mendix Cloud v4, this indicates the type of plan covered by this license

> * **Instances** – for Mendix Cloud v4, this shows a summary of the number and memory allocation of instances of this environment - for more information, see [Scaling - Mendix Cloud v4](#scaling)

Reviewer 2: "- for more information" looks like a hyphen and not an en or em dash?

"see [Scaling - Mendix Cloud v4](#scaling)" > "see the [Scaling - Mendix Cloud v4](#scaling) section below" (should be done throughout)

Author: Done

* **Start/Stop Application**
* **Clear Environment** (only visible if your application is stopped) – this allows you to empty all the data from your database and, optionally, remove the app and file storage from the environment as well; for more information, see [Clearing an Environment](#clear-environment)
* **Show Logged in Users** 
* **Change Admin Password** – this changes the password for the built-in [administrator](/refguide/administrator/) account; the new password is applied immediately, without the need for a restart, and forces the administrator to pick up any new [roles](/refguide/administrator/#user-role) assigned in the app deployment package

{{% alert color="info" %}}
During a [maintenance window](/developerportal/deploy/maintenance-windows/), you cannot start, restart, or stop your app.
{{% /alert %}}

#### 2.1.1 Actions Specific to Mendix Cloud v4

{{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments-details/actions-v4.png" alt="A screenshot of the available actions with v4-specific actions on the bottom">}}

In Mendix Cloud v4 environments, you have two additional action buttons:

* **View Live Log**

> * **Show debugger information** – Shows the settings needed to connect the debugger in Studio Pro to your app. For Mendix Cloud v4, the debugger is always enabled. For more information on debugging in the cloud, see [How To Debug Microflows Remotely](/howto/monitoring-troubleshooting/debug-microflows-remotely/).

Reviewer 2: I recently moved How To Debug Microflows Remotely to the refguide, you'll have to update this link.

Author: Done.

#### 2.1.2 Actions Specific to Mendix Cloud v3

{{% alert color="warning" %}}

> Our Mendix Cloud v3 is deprecated, currently in a grace period, and will be retired at the beginning of Q3 2021. To continue running your licensed Mendix application on the Mendix Cloud, you need to migrate your app to Mendix Cloud v4. To learn more about Mendix Cloud v4 and how to migrate from Mendix Cloud v3, see [Migrate to Mendix Cloud v4](/developerportal/deploy/migrating-to-v4/). 

Reviewer 2: "Our" not necessary

How is "grace period" defined?

Also, why is this note still here if the citation for "retirement" is Q3 2021? Please look into this.

Author: to check - do we still have any customers in v3 & how long until it's retired; check the DEP channel

Author: Removed the specific date for now. After talking to SMEs, we will remove v3 documentation except for the migration document. The deprecation date is not known but will probably be this year.

{{% /alert %}}

{{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments-details/actions-v3.png" alt="A screenshot of the available actions with v3-specific actions on the bottom">}}

In Mendix Cloud v3 environments, you have two additional action buttons:

* **View Current Log**

> * **Enable/Disable Debugging** – Enables or disables the debugger option. For more information about enabling the debugger, see [How to Debug Microflows Remotely](/howto7/monitoring-troubleshooting/debug-microflows-remotely/).

Reviewer 2: This is cross-referencing an Mx7 how-to - link needs to be updated.

Author: Done.

{{% /alert %}}

To clear the environment, follow these steps:

1. Click **Clear Environment**.
2. Select one of the following options:
    * **Only clear the database** – This empties all data from your database. After you confirm the deletion, the application is stopped, the existing database is deleted, a new database is created, and the application is restarted. Ensure you have a backup of any data that you want to keep.
    * **Clear the full environment (model and database)** – This clears all data from your database and file storage, and removes your app from this environment. You should do this if you want to deploy a different app to this environment.
3. Confirm that you want to clear your environment by typing *clear*.
4. Click **Clear Environment**.

{{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments-details/clear-environment.png" alt="Clear Environment options and confirmation"   width="400"  >}}

### 2.2 Naming of Environments – Flexible Environments in Mendix Cloud v4 {#naming}

> If you are the [Technical Contact](/developerportal/collaborate/app-roles/#technical-contact) of the app, you can rename the environments as you wish.

Reviewer: Not sure why "as you wish" is here. Seems superflous.
```suggestion
If you are the [Technical Contact](/developerportal/collaborate/app-roles/#technical-contact) of the app, you can rename the environments.
```

In **Scaling**, there are two sliders that you can control:

* Use the **Instances** slider to increase or decrease the number of instances from one to four
    * The instances are meant for improved resiliency and increased processing power
    * The minimum amount of RAM per instances is 1 GB; you can spread the RAM among four instances if you have more than 1 GB of RAM 
* Use the **Memory per instance** slider to increase or decrease the memory amount per instance

The **Total Allocated Memory** is a process circle that shows how much memory is currently used for scaling.

{{% alert color="info" %}}The maximum value for **Memory per instance** equals the **Total Allocated Memory** of your plan, but it cannot exceed 32 GB. The maximum number of instances changes according to the **Memory per instance** you have chosen in such a way that `Max instances x Memory per instance = Total Allocated Memory`.{{% /alert %}}

If you have 1 GB RAM of the **Total Allocated Memory**, you have one instance available to store your memory. To scale your memory over multiple instances, you need more memory.

### 2.4 Overviews {#overviews}

> At the bottom of the **Environment Details** page, there are three overview grids with information about the deployment package details, plan details, and license.

Reviewer: Much better than before, but perhaps we don't need "information about" as "information about plan details" seems to be a tautology?
```suggestion
At the bottom of the **Environment Details** page, there are three overview grids showing the deployment package details, plan details, and license.
```

> At the bottom of the page, there are three overview grids with information about the deployment package details, plan details, and licence.

Reviewer 2: Worth formatting "deployment package details, plan details, and licence" as UI text to draw the user's attention to the tab names?

Typo on "licence"

Author: note - "at the bottom of the env details page" for clarity

Author: I don't think it should be formatted as UI text here - I'm not really discussing them in the context of the UI, so it would come across more as emphasis.

You can perform the following actions:

> * **Create** (in which you have to provide the domain name and select the certificate from a drop-down menu)

Reviewer 2: Is a parenthetical statement and "in which" the best way to add information to this action? Doesn't look like our style.

Author: Done.

* **Edit**
* **Delete**

For more information, see [Certificates](/developerportal/deploy/certificates/) and [Custom Domains](/developerportal/deploy/custom-domains/).

### 4.2 HTTP Headers {#http-headers}

HTTP Headers allows you to set the values of selected HTTP response headers. These allow the server to pass additional information with the response which the browser interprets to control the behavior of your Mendix app.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
This replaces the option to prevent embedding your app in an iframe with more flexible options to set HTTP Headers.

> {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: I wonder if we still need this. Looking at **Blame** it seems that this has been here for four years, so I don't know if any customers will remember having an option about iframes.

Perhaps we can make a note to follow this up - either immediately, or at a later date?

Author: Sure - who would be the best person to talk to about this?

Author: Ask in the #dep channel

Author: Mark this one as to do at a later date

The deprecated Mendix Cloud v3 only supports X-Frame-Options. Mendix Cloud v4 supports the following HTTP headers in the Developer Portal:

| Header | Description | Additional Information |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Access-Control-Allow-Origin | Indicates whether the response can be shared with requesting code from the given origin | |

> | Content-Security-Policy | Allows web site administrators to control resources the user agent is allowed to load for a given page | Requires a string value.<br/>See [Content Security Policy](#csp), below, for more information. |

Reviewer 2: Add period at end of all description sentences?

Reviewer 2: Third column necessary for "Additional Information" if only used for 2 items? Couldn't that text be folded into the regular description and give more room in the table altogether?

Author: Done.

| Referrer-Policy | Governs which referrer information should be included with requests made. |

> | X-Content-Type-Options | Indicate that the MIME types advertised in the Content-Type headers should not be changed and be followed. |

Reviewer: I think we should be consistent with singular/plural. Even though the header name indicates plural, I think we are talking about the header name, not the content.
(Yet another thing which isn't a result of your editing, but was there already!)
```suggestion
| X-Content-Type-Options | Indicates that the MIME types advertised in the Content-Type headers should not be changed and be followed. |
```

> | X-Frame-Options | Indicates whether or not a browser should be allowed to render a page in a `<frame>`, `<iframe>`, `<embed>` or `<object>` | The default is not to allow apps to be rendered inside frames. <br/> This was the value set previously to prevent embedding in an iframe. <br/> See [Running Your App in an Iframe](#iframe), below, for information about running your app inside an iframe. |

Reviewer 2: "iframe" or "iFrame" when used in regular text?

Reviewer 2: (Issue throughout doc)

Author: The MS style guide doesn't say it explicitly, but the MS documentation uses iframe in normal text.

#### 4.2.2 Running Your App in an Iframe {#iframe}

Most browsers have additional security to ensure that iframes are only allowed when they are from the same domain as the main page. The defaults for these vary by browser version. This security is controlled through SameSite cookies. For more information, see [SameSite cookies explained](https://web.dev/samesite-cookies-explained/).

{{% alert color="info" %}}
There can be additional issues when using cookies in iframes for end-users using the Safari browser. Resolving these issues is outside the control of Mendix. For more information, see [Full Third-Party Cookie Blocking and More](https://webkit.org/blog/10218/full-third-party-cookie-blocking-and-more/).
{{% /alert %}}

##### 4.2.2.1 Using Custom Domains

To avoid security issues when you want to embed the app in an iframe, we recommend that you use [custom domains](/developerportal/deploy/custom-domains/) to ensure that the app you want to embed is part of the same domain. For example, if your page is `mainpage.domain.name`, then the app embedded in the iframe should be `appname.domain.name`.

##### 4.2.2.2 Applying a Different SameSite Setting

> From Mendix version 8.12, you can control the value of SameSite in your cookies. The default for all cookies depends on the version of Mendix you are using:

Reviewer 2: Can add a cross-reference to 8.12 RN.

We do not use "Mendix version," we use "Studio Pro version."

Author: I don't know if it's really necessary to add a link to the old release notes. Do we want the user to go and read them?

The other thing is fixed.

* For Mendix version 8 (8.12 and above), the default is `SameSite=None`, which means that they can be used in an iframe
* For Mendix version 9.0 and above, the default is `SameSite=Strict`, which means that they cannot be used in an iframe

You can change this value in the `com.mendix.core.SameSiteCookies` [custom runtime setting](#custom-runtime-settings) if you want to change iframe restrictions for your app.

For Mendix versions below 8.12, there was no SameSite value set on cookies, and the behavior is dependent on the browser default. To ensure that cookies can be used within iframes, you can set the custom environment variable `SAMESITE_COOKIE_PRE_MX812` to `true` in [custom environment variables](#custom-environment-variables), which sets `SameSite=None; Secure;` for all your cookies.

{{% alert color="warning" %}}

> The SAMESITE_COOKIE_PRE_MX812 setting is implemented the next time your app is deployed after you apply the change.

Reviewer 2: "SAMESITE_COOKIE_PRE_MX812" needs formatting here?

Author: Done.

{{% /alert %}}

##### 4.2.2.3 Using Custom Sign In Pages

> If you use a custom sign in page, the `originURI` cookie is normally set by your *index.html*. If your Mendix app runs within an iframe, this cookie needs to be set with the `SameSite=None` and `Secure` attributes.

Reviewer 2: "sign in page" - something needs to be improved with "sign in"

Author: Added hyphen.

> To do this, find all the places in your theme folder where this cookie is set. It looks like `document.cookie = "originURI=/login.html"`.

Reviewer 2: "theme folder" - "theme" is the default name in SP? If so, how to format?

Author: I'm not sure here. @MarkvanMents  - is "theme" the actual folder name?

Reviewer: It is this folder. Perhaps we could treat it as part of the UX and bold it, since I think it is a fixed name and won't change with different Windows language options. Alternatively, we could explain a bit more where to find it?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/35492184/190187214-95003ed7-23e7-480d-a9bf-45138bac5979.png)

Author: @MarkvanMents I think it's probably a good idea to specify the file path, because I'm having problems finding it myself. :) Where is it located?

Author: Added a link to /howto/front-end/customize-styling-new/

### 4.3 Outgoing Connections Whitelisting (Mendix Cloud Dedicated){#connection-whitelist}

> If you are deploying your apps to [Mendix Cloud Dedicated](https://www.mendix.com/evaluation-guide/app-capabilities/mendix-cloud-overview#mendix-cloud-vpc), all outgoing IP addresses are allowed by default.

Reviewer 2: Is it strange to reference the Eval Guide from a technical doc for more technical info/summary? On the same note, should https://docs.mendix.com/developerportal/deploy/#31-mendix-cloud-dedicated be updated to include some more relevant info?

Author: @MarkvanMents Can you take a look at this question?

Author: Mark to take a look at the linked document.

Reviewer: @katarzyna-koltun-mx 
Sorry about the delay in responding to this.
I think the best thing is to link to this, which then goes to the evaluation guide.
https://docs.mendix.com/developerportal/deploy/#31-mendix-cloud-dedicated
You will need to make a specific anchor for it.
Can you do this, or shall I pick it up?

Author: Done. Will open a new PR for the change.

If you clear the **Allow all outgoing connections** check box, you can define which IP addresses and ports can be used for outgoing connections.

You can add or edit a number of different IP address and port combinations. Any ranges which have already been set up are listed here. You can do the following:

* Select **Allow all outgoing connections** to remove any restrictions, or deselect it to impose restrictions
* Click **New** to add a new range
* Select an existing range and click **Edit** to edit an existing range
* Select an existing range, click **Delete**, and then confirm that you want to delete this range

#### 4.3.1 Managing a Whitelist Range

For each range where you define whitelisted IP addresses and ports, you can enter the following information:

> * **Name** – enter a name to identify this range, for example, *192 Group*.

Reviewer 2: If these bulleted descriptions all have periods, they should all be complete sentences, and the first word of the description ("Specify") should be capitalized.

Author: Fixed.

> * **IP** – Specify an inclusive range of whitelisted IP addresses in IPv4 format, for example, *192.168.10.1* to *192.168.10.255*. All the IP addresses must be in a public range, see [Valid IP Ranges](#valid-ip), below. All addresses between the **Start** address and the **End** address are whitelisted, including the start and end addresses. If you only want to whitelist a single address, make the start and end addresses the same.

Reviewer: I think the example IP range should be one of the valid IP ranges listed below. Otherwise customers will get confused? Unfortunately, the 192.168 combination is reserved for private networks so isn't a valid IP range.
Good idea to include an example, though. I've put in a range which includes google.com 😀
```suggestion
* **IP** – Specify an inclusive range of whitelisted IP addresses in IPv4 format, for example, *142.251.39.1* to *142.251.39.255*. All the IP addresses must be in a public range, see [Valid IP Ranges](#valid-ip), below. All addresses between the **Start** address and the **End** address are whitelisted, including the start and end addresses. If you only want to whitelist a single address, make the start and end addresses the same.
```

| Debug | | Detailed information, typically of interest only when diagnosing problems. |
| Info  | | Confirmation that things are working as expected. |
| Warning | Orange | Indicates that something unexpected happened or that there is some problem in the near future (for example, "disk space low"). The application is still working as expected. |
| Error | Red | Due to a more serious problem, the application has not been able to perform some function. |
| Critical | White (text), red (background) | A serious error has occurred, indicating that the application itself may be unable to continue running. |

For more information about log levels, see [How to Set Log Levels](/howto/monitoring-troubleshooting/log-levels/).

## 6 Runtime Tab {#runtime-tab}

On this tab, you can add **Custom Runtime Settings** and **Custom Environment Variables**

{{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments-details/runtime.png" alt="Viewing the Runtime tab" >}}   

### 6.1 Custom Runtime Settings {#custom-runtime-settings}

Use the Custom Runtime Settings section to perform the following actions:

> * **Add** a new runtime setting with a new value

Reviewer 2: Bold "Custom Runtime Settings" above?

"runtime" or "Mendix Runtime" ? Please discuss with Mark.

Author: Bolded. @MarkvanMents - can you take a look at Adam's question?

Author: Leaving as is because the whole section is called "custom runtime settings:"

* **Edit** the runtime setting
* **Delete** the runtime settings

For more information about runtime settings, read the [Runtime Customization](/refguide/custom-settings/) and [Advanced Custom Settings in Mendix Runtime](/refguide/tricky-custom-runtime-settings/) documentation.

> The Mendix Cloud uses runtime settings to configure the included systems for logs, backups, and database. Therefore, the following settings are not configurable by users:

Reviewer 2: "The Mendix Cloud" > "Mendix Cloud"

Author: Fixed.

> * **SAMESITE_COOKIE_PRE_MX812** – set `SameSite=None;Secure` for all cookies coming from the Mendix runtime, as described in the [Running Your App in an Iframe](#iframe) section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **SAMESITE_COOKIE_PRE_MX812** – sets `SameSite=None;Secure` for all cookies coming from the Mendix runtime, as described in the [Running Your App in an Iframe](#iframe) section
```

### 7.2 Planned Maintenance

> When a maintenance operation is planned, it appears under **Planned Maintenance**. By default, this is planned in your preferred maintenance window. You can override the maintenance window of a specific maintenance operation by clicking **Override**.

Reviewer 2: Good change from (future) phrasal verb.

Author: Thank you! :)

You automatically receive email notifications about planned maintenance.

## 8 Tags Tab

You can set tags on your environment. These are arbitrary strings that are not interpreted by the Developer Portal.

{{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments-details/tags.png" alt="Viewing the Tags tab" >}}

Tags serve two purposes:

* Custom tags can be added to metrics for third-party metrics solutions
* Tags can serve as selection criteria for grouping environments into a landscape management dashboard which can be used for third-party logging solutions

> For example, you may wish to use tags when logging with Datadog. You can find more information on this at [Getting started with tags](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tagging/) on the Datadog site.

Reviewer 2: "on the Datadog site" used here, but links above don't have similar qualifiers - should this be made consistent, even with an SG update?

Author: I'll remove the Datadog site tag as that would be my preference.

> ## 9 Services Tab {#services}

Reviewer 2: This doc is very long. Can you make a proposal for breaking it up into something more manageable for the user and discuss with Mark?

Author: We've discussed some possibilities and will look into them further.

> You can enable and disable custom services for individual environments of your app. The service that you want to enable must have been enabled for the app by its Technical Contact. For more information, see [Services](/developerportal/deploy/environments/#services).

Reviewer 2: Cross-referencing a doc for Technical Contact may be good for the user.

Author: Done.
